React State 3 - journal app challenges (#169)
neuefische/web-exercises: sessions/react-state-3/journal-app-filter/README.md

# React State: Journal App with Entries Filter

Your journal app includes filter button to show all entries or only favorites. Currently the button don't work yet. Let's implement this feature!

> 💡 You can use this template as a starting point. But if you are far enough along with your own Journal App, please use that instead.

## Task

### Make the filter buttons clickable (optional)

> 💡 If you didn't write a wrapping component like `Tab` for the `button` tag in your own code, you might not need to do this extra step.

Users should be able to click on the filter buttons to change the list of displayed entries. First we want to make sure the buttons are clickable.

Locate the component that renders the `button` JSX tag. In the template there is `Tab` used as a wrapping component around the `button` tag. To have the button clickable we need to pass the `onClick` prop to it.

- Add the prop `onClick` to the function declaration of this component

> - Pass the prop to the `button` tag like this: `onClick={onClick}`

Author: Writing an additional `handel*` function for this would be overengineering. We need to make the `<button>` JSX tag, which is nested in `Tab`, clickable by adding a `onClick` to it. We can just pass it down as it is from the `Tab` component. Another `handle*` function would just be harder to read and two lines of code that don't provide any benefit.

It's meant like this:

```jsx
function Tab({children, onClick}){
  return <button onClick={onClick}>{children}</button>
}

function Tabs() {
  return (
    <>
      <Tab onClick={handleWhatever}>Yeah!</Tab>
      <Tab onClick={handleThisThing}>Awesome!</Tab>
    </>
  )
}
```

Maybe we should rephrase the task?

> - Pass the prop to the `button` tag like this: `onClick={onClick}`

Reviewer: I don't think re-writing is necessary at all, was just curious how this would be handled (hee hee).

> - Pass the prop to the `button` tag like this: `onClick={onClick}`

Author: Okay :)

Great, the buttons can be clicked now 🚀

### Expose events when the filter buttons are clicked

Let's make sure that the right event is triggered when clicking on the buttons.

> Find the component where both filter buttons are located beside each other. Here it's the `EntriesSection` component. This component needs to expose an event for each button.

Author: ```suggestion
Find the component where both filter buttons are located beside each other. Here it's the `EntriesSection` component. The component having both buttons needs to expose two events - one event for each button.
```

> Find the component where both filter buttons are located beside each other. Here it's the `EntriesSection` component. This component needs to expose an event for each button.

Author: Good catch! 

I changed the text to describe better which component should be updated

- Pass the value to this prop conditionally. Depending on the value of the state `filter` you pass the array `entries` or the array `favoriteEntries` (hint: you can use the ternary operator)

Now you will see different entries in the UI when clicking the filter buttons 🚀

> 💡 If there are no entries displayed after you clicked on the "Favorites" button, you might need to click the "star" button of some entries first.

### Visual highlight for active filter

We are almost done. There are two minor things, that need to be fixed. First you might notice that one of the two filter buttons is highlighted as active. Clicking the buttons does not change this visual indicator yet.

- Alongside the `entries` prop also pass down the `filter` state as prop to the component rendering the two buttons. (Here it's the `EntriesSection` component)
- Inside of the `EntriesSection` component add the `filter` prop to the function declaration.

Locate the prop that enabled the visual highlight for the buttons. In the template it's the `isActive` prop of the `Tab` and `Badge` components.

> - Pass the value of the `isActive` prop conditionally depending on the value of `filter`, which could be `"all"` or `"favorites"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pass the value of the `isActive` prop conditionally, depending on the value of `filter`, which could be `"all"` or `"favorites"`.
```
Pass the value where 👀 ?

> Click on the filter buttons now. You will see that the visual highlight gets applied to the button you clicked, while the other button looses the visual highlight 🚀

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click on the filter buttons now. You will see that the visual highlight gets applied to the button you clicked, while the other button looses the visual highlight. 🚀
```

### Show count of all and favorite entries

> The last thing we need to adjust is the number inside the filter buttons. They indicate how many entries are in each of the two lists. You might notice they show a random hardcoded number now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last thing we need to adjust is the number inside the filter buttons. They indicate how many entries are in each of the two lists. You might notice they show an arbitrary hardcoded number now.
```
Can't be both hardcoded and random 🤭

Author: This is so true 😁

> Stay in the component rendering the two buttons. (Here it's the `EntriesSection` component)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stay in the component rendering the two buttons. Here it's the `EntriesSection` component.
```

> - Add two new props to the function declaration: `allEntriesCount` and `favoriteEntriesCount`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add two new props to the function declaration: `allEntriesCount` and `favoriteEntriesCount`.
```

Go up in the component hierarchy to the place where this component is rendered.

- Add the props `allEntriesCount` and `favoriteEntriesCount` props and pass a value for each.

> - The value can be read from the `length` property of the two arrays `entries` and `favoriteEntries`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The value can be read from the `length` property of the two arrays `entries` and `favoriteEntries`.
```
Should we mention that this property can be accessed via dot notation?

Author: ```suggestion
- The value can be read from the `length` property of the two arrays `entries` and `favoriteEntries`. You can access the `length` property by using the dot notion on the array variables.
```

Author: Couldn't hurt. I added a note

The UI should display the correct number of entries within the filter buttons now. 🚀

> Awesome job! You've worked your way through a rather complex app and coded many cool features that deal with multiple states 🚀 🚀 🚀

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Awesome job! You've worked your way through a rather complex app and coded many cool features that deal with multiple states! 🚀 🚀 🚀
```
